There's a feeling of territoriality, if that's the right word, I'm trying to be very polite, between the people in INA and the people in the program.
However, as Hamilton, the head of the program, said to me the other day, neither can exist without the other, and they have to get along.
And there's little turf battles, but that's in any department.
I wish the I&A had a hundred million dollar endowment, or even a ten million dollar endowment, and that's one of the things I want to work on in my retirement.
Okay, then to whom, over all these years, to whom do you feel the most gratitude?
Oh, without any doubt whatsoever, Ann, who was a better pianist than I am an archaeologist probably years, good and gave up her entire career to traipsy around the world.
And I said to her once, you know, don't you resent that.
And she said no because she was a child of the 50s like I were.
And a young South Carolina girl, that was her, you know, what she grew up is to get married and be a wife.
And today that doesn't hold.
But, I mean, she could have directed an excavation like Debbie Carlson now could direct an excavation because she's not a child of the 50s.
She's married, but she has her own life.
I can never repay her for being the person that would be my free secretary, my free bookkeeper, my free, you know, volunteer, everything, everything.
Who else over these 30 years?
Rodney Young, my professor, who set an example for me and everyone.
I dedicated the first volume in the Texas A&M University Press Series for Nautical Archaeology to him.
He cared far more about his students than about his own career.
He was a very modest man, he was a bachelor, a big guy who had been badly wounded in the Second World War and used to ride a motorcycle, very tough guy.
But people didn't know that, I didn't know that he was an heir to the Budweiser.
family, and he left no will.
He talked to me about how we would, our institute would invest a certain amount of money, and I just treated it very lightly.
And he said, what would you do with a certain amount of money?
I won't say the amount, but it would have helped us a great deal.
And then he was still in this car crash, and his nephew was his cousin, said, you know, he kept saying, I've got to write my will, but he hadn't.
But the reason I say that he's had an example is that I found out that when he would say that the museum had made a special grant to me to be able to pay me for a trip through New Year's to visit museums to help publish a site or something like that, I found out later that that just came out of his pocket.
But he didn't want me to thank him.
You know, he was an incredible man.
And all of the students think that.
For example, when I went to Penn, there were only four of us working for PhDs.
Crawford Greenwald, Jr., Charles Williams,
Arthur Steinberg and myself.
Crawford Greenant Wall now is the director of the Sardis excavations in Turkey, probably the major American land excavation in Turkey.
Charles Williams became director of the Corinth excavations, the major American excavation in Greece, probably.
I became director of the Underwater Stuff, which has made a mark.
And the brightest of us all,
Arthur Steinberg, went in the field once to Gordon, didn't like sand in his face and flies.
And so he never, he gave up.
But he could have also been the same.
But he teaches the humanities at MIT.
But he just didn't want to be a field archaeologist.
So that was because Rodney,
almost forced us to go out and become great.
I mean, he made us publish.
Now publish.
Give a talk at this AIA meeting, you know.
Whereas when I'd been under another professor once at one point in my career, and I asked if I could publish some material from an excavation that I'd worked on, he said, oh, no, no, no.
You should never try to publish anything until you're at least 40 years old and have the weight of experience behind you.
And look at the difference.
When I was 28, I was drinking my own excavation, and that was good.
All right.
Any other names you want to mention?
You mentioned your wife and your teacher.
Anybody else you want to include in your?
Well, from Texas A&M, I would have to say Vaughn Bryant is very high on the list because he was so supportive as head of the department.
And he was the only head I've ever known because I've been gone since David Carlson.
I became department head, and now I'm retiring.
So, Vaughn, Claude Dutwy.
I said I'd name him again.
Spell his last name.
D-U-T-H-U-I-T.
He lent me his tent for my honeymoon.
He's the one that said, get back into archaeology.
I used to pay him $120 a month to be our chief diver.
And then our lives just stood apart.
And only because I broke down in a car once driving down through the Robin Piercy did I say, I have a French friend in Paris.
Let's just call me.
We can drop by and see him.
He asked me about INA.
He wanted to know all about it.
He said to spend the night
Now, you may have heard of people going from College Station to Paris for their honeymoons.
Can you imagine somebody coming from Paris to College Station on his honeymoon?
Claude and his wife came here.
We're the best of friends.
But not only that,
He is the grandson of Henri Matisse, the painter.
So in the last several years, he has come into an incredible fortune.
I don't even want to know what it is.
But he was my major sponsor this year.
So a guy that I used to hire can now turn around and give over $100,000 to me for what I'm trying to do.
And so he comes with his wife and stays with us every year in College Station for a week or two.
When I can, I'll stay with him in Paris.
But I think that the thing we enjoy more than anything in life is just be together now at this time in our lives in Turkey, going out and diving and playing with submarines and being at sea.
And it's funny because at night we sit down and we check our pills in the morning because he's had a major heart attack.
He's got prostate cancer.
I've had a stroke.
I've had skin cancer.
And we complain about our ailments while we're diving.
You ought to write an O. Henry-like true short story about this.
Because, you know, somebody would say, now wait, wait, wait, that's fiction.
That couldn't have happened.
And that here you would hire this man for this figure and now he's this.
That you would get help from him and then he would come here.
Then, two things left then.
Let's make believe that someone handed you a check for a million dollars, which you were then to pass on to A&M, but you got to decide the use to be made of it.
If you could make a generous, generous gift to A&M, what would you want done with that gift?
I would want it to be spent as seed money to never pay for more than one half of a survey or an excavation or some field project.
Because I think if you're handed all the money, because I've seen this happen,
You don't have the same incentive to publish quickly, to prove yourself, to get on television, and all the things that spreads the work around.
And, you know, one of the more expensive items every year for those of us working in Turkey is travel.
So, you know, a certain amount could maybe be set aside as travel funds for graduate students.
So that would be it.
A field fund.
I mean, they're always going to be able to support the books in the library because of people like Sterling Evans.
Presumably they're never going to lose student assistantships, although some of those right now are due to this endowments I raised through the I&A directors.
There's a Siegfried Fellowship, there's a Cook Fellowship and so forth, so.
Last question.
What are your feelings about Texas A&M today?
I would embarrass you.
I would embarrass you because you'd think I was making it up.
I mean, it's just wonderful.
I'm saying that in my commencement address, that I went to a small private intellectual place, Johns Hopkins, and then I joined the faculty of an Ivy League university.
And I wondered what it would be like to come to a land-grant university, a state university, a large university, and it was just the best choice I ever made in my life.
I mean, I get – there are certain things that maybe, you know, for example, I'm a Democrat.
Probably 80 percent of the students on campus are Republican.
I love to go to football games, but the level of college sports sometimes bothers me because I think, you know, this is really the minor leagues of professional sports these days.
And at Johns Hopkins they didn't even charge admissions to the football games, and yet I was a cheerleader, the same as the year old leader here, and I got the same kick out of watching us play Lafayette and Swarthmore and places.
I mean you can still have good school spirit without having it big business.
I, I just, I, I, well, I don't know, I'll probably stay here, La Dai in College Station.
Um, it, it's, it's a, it's a great institution.
And, and one of the things that happened is, is since I've been here, when I first got here, there was no ancient historian.
There were no, I think Spanish and, a little German and Czech were, or maybe French were the only languages.
Now you can take Japanese, you can take, um, Greek, you can take Latin.
Um, maybe you can take Arabic, I don't know.
We used to ask students to go over to the University of Texas Austin to get courses like that.
We don't have to do that anymore.
Now, whether that's good or bad for Texas A&M, I don't know.
I mean, it's not what Texas A&M was founded for.
And as you know, being a historian better than I do, the entire faculty was fired for teaching the classics in their third or fourth year out of existence.
And administration too, I think.
So, you know, I don't know whether that's good or bad.
I think that
As the university grows and with more liberal arts, I think that it will lose some of this unique spirit.
I think that is almost bound to happen.
For example, everybody no longer says howdy when you pass them on the sidewalks.
It's just too many.
You'd be saying howdy, howdy, howdy, howdy, howdy.
It used to happen when I first got here.
I suspect when I got here it was more like 20 or 25,000 students than the 40 or 45,000 today.
So I think that it can lose some of that unique spirit while developing the arts.
I don't know.
Ann said once that she had never met a group of people more comfortable in their skin than the Texas A&M alumni who had gone through the Second World War.
She just said that they just were very special.
No question.
Are you ready to let that be the last, do you have a last line or a last thought?
No.
I mean I'm getting quite choked up about that.
That's true, you know.
All right, let's quit then.